what is AWS cloud?
    AWS(amazon web services) is a cloud computing platform
    the first product(s3)was released in 2006 
    AWS has grown a lot since then in both size and product range.
    it is to date, the largest cloud provider in the world.

Why learn AWS?
    it is the largest of the cloud providers
    it competence is popular in job market
    you can do most things in AWS cloud 
    Big community/support

Free AWS account?
    it offers a free tier letting you explore and try out their services.
    the free tier offers you limited use of services for free

Client-server model:
    it is an important concept in cloud computing
    it is about many clients using services from a centralized server.

What is client server model?
    it is about a client that interacts and makes request to a computer server.
    A client is the way that the person interact with server

what is cloud computing?
    it is a computing service made available over the internet.
    it is pay as you go model for delivering IT resources
    you pay only for what you use.

Deployment models:
        cloud-based
        On-premises
        Hybrid
    the models are different ways of accessing compute services-over the internet locally or in a combination.

Cloud based deployment?
    everything runs in the cloud
    this model allows you to build new applications or move existing ones to cloud
    there are different levels of the services ranging from low to high
    the level of service has different requirement on your management, architecting and infrastructure.

    eg: a company might create an application consisting of virtual servers, databases, and networking components entirely based on cloud.

On premises deployment?
    deploy resources by using virtualization and resource management tools.
    on-premises deployment is also known as private cloud deployment.
    eg: you might have applications that run on technology that is fully kept in your on-premises data center.
    though this model is liek legacy IT infrastructure its application management and virtualization tech make it more effective.

Hybrid deployment:
    you connect cloud resources to an on-premises infrastructure.
    this approach is relevant in many situations
    eg: you are working with sensitive data or are under specific government regulations.

Why choose cloud computing ?
    there are many reasons for going with cloud
        cost savings
        security
        scalability
        Flexibility
    
    Payment model:
        the cloud payment model is flexible
        you do not have to invest in a data center, servers, and other resources.
        the cloud services is a variable expense.
        you can use the services from the start and consume more as you grow.
    
    Fewer Operations:
        Having your own data centers and servers requires resources and staffing 
        cloud computing reduces operation and lets you focus on important things, such as your applications and customers.
    
    flexible capacity:
        having and managing your own servers can result in unused capacity and limitations
        on the other hand you can grow freely with cloud computing 
        you pay for what you use
    
    Economies at Scale
        cloud computing is about shared resources
        sharing the infrastructure cost with hundreds of thousands of other customers lowers the overall costs.

    Increased speed:
        the Flexibility of cloud computing makes it easier to develop and deploy applications.
        you can test and utilize resources as you want in minutes
        this freedom allows you to experiment and invent more
        it allows for instant resources access.

    Global reach:
        AWS has data centers all over the world.
        the AWS cloud global reach allows you to swiftly deploy apps to consumers anywhere.
        customers can access your apps quickly 
        you can pick the ones near your clients to reduce the latency.


AWS EC2:
    EC2 is a virtual server in the AWS cloud.
    AWS EC2 is short for AWS Elastic cloud compute.
    it makes scaling of capacity up and down easy.

WHY EC2 ?
    it makes the process of increasing and decreasing capacity easier.
    as a result you can access the resource at demand
    no upfront investment is needed
    you only pay for what you needed
    EC2 is secure.

Get started with AWS EC2
    Launch:
        start with selecting a template with basic configurations
        the config includes the operating system, application server, or applications.
        next decide the instance type and hardware configuration of your instance
        finally specify the security settings to control the traffic in and out of your instance.

    connect:
        there are many ways to connect an instance
        programs and applications have multiple connection methods to exchange data
        users can connect and access the computer desktop by logging in 

    Use:
        once connected, you can use the instance 
        execute commands to install software, add storage, copy, and organize files and much more.

