Django: 
    it is a python framework that makes it easier to create web sites using python
    django take care of difficult stuff so that you can concentrate on building your web applications
    djano emphasizes reusability of components also referred to as DRY(Dont repeat yourself) and comes with ready to use features like login system,  db connection and CRUD operations

how does Django work?
    Django will follow MVT design pattern
        Model: the data you want to present usually data from a database
        View: a request handler that returns the relevent template and content - based on request from the user.
        Template : A text file(like a html file) contains the layout of webpage with logic on how to display data.

    
    MODEL: model provides data from database. the models are usually located in models.py
        -the data is delivered as an ORM(object relational mapping) which is a technique designed to make it 
         easier to work with database.
        -the most common way to extract data from db is SQL.
        -Django with ORM makes it easier to communicate with db without having to write complex SQL statements.

    View:the views are usually located in views.py
            A view is a function or method that keeps http request as argument,
            imports the relevant models and finds out what data to send to template 
            and returns the final result.

    Template: the template of an application is located in folder names templates.
        it is a file where we can describe how the result should be represented.
        templates are mostly in html code describing the layout of webpage.
        Django uses standard HTML to describe the layout. but uses Django tags to add logic 
            <h1> My home </h1>
            <p> my name is {{first name}} </p>
    
    URLS: this will be done in a file called urls.py 
        Django also provides a way to navigate around the different pages in a website.
        when a user request a URL Django decides whicih view it will send it to.

working flow of Django :

    django receives the URL checks urls.py file and call the view matches the URL.
    the view located in views.py checks for relevant models.
    the models are imported from models.py 
    the view then sends data to specified template in template folder.
    the template contains html and django tags and with data it returns finished html content back to browser.

DJANGO CREATE PROJECT 

    command for create project: django-admin startproject project_name

Django APP: 
    app is a web application that has a specific meansing in your project.
    we can create an app that allows us to list and register members in db.

    command for creating app: python manage.py startapp appname

