Python indentation : it refers to the spaces at beginning of a code line to indicate a block of code 
    python will give you error if we skip indentation 

comments: 
    purpose of comments in python is to use in documentation 
    it starts with # for single line and ''' or """ for multi line comments 
    comments will be used to explain the code and it makes code more readable and to prevent execution when testing code.

Variables: 
    variables are created when you assign a value to it 
    variables are containers for storing data values.
    A varibale is created the moment you first assign a value to it.
    variable do not need to be declared with any particular type and can even change type after they set.
    to get type of the variable we will use in built function type()
    variable names are case-sensitive
Rules for variables: 
    it must start with a letter or underscore char
    it cannot start with a number 
    it can only contain alpha numeric char and underscores(A-Z, a-z, 0-9, _)
    these cannot be any of the python keywords

important points in variables:
    python allows you to assign values to multiple variables in one line and no of values should match no of variables 
    we can assign same value to multiple variables in one line 

unpack a collection 
    if you have a collection of values in a list or tuple python allows 
    you to extract values into variables. this is called unpacking.

Output variables using print():
    print() is often used to output variables.
    output multiple variables seperated by a comma.
    we can use + operator to output multiple variables.

Global Variables:
    variables that are created outside of a function.
    these can be used by everyone both inside of function and outside.
    if you create a variable with same name inside a function this variable will be local 
    and can only be used inside function.
    the global variable with same name will remain as it was global and with original value.

    normally when you create a variable inside a function that variable is local and can only be used inside that function.
    to create a global variable inside a function we need to use global keyword.


Built in Data Types:
    Numeric : int, float, complex
    sequence type: list, tuple, range
    mapping type: dict
    set type : set, frozenset
    boolean type: boolean
    binary type: bytes, bytearray, memoryview
    Nonetype: nonetype

Numbers:
    int: it is a whole number positive, negative without decimals of unlimited length
    float: it is a number positive, negative containing one or more decimals
    complex: these are numbers written with a "j" as the imaginary particular

Random Number: python does not have a random() function to make a random number but python has built in module 
    called random that can be used to make random numbers.

Strings: 
    strings in python are surrounded by either single quotation marks or double qoutation marks.
    we can use qoutes inside a string as long as they dont match the qoutes surrounding the string.

Strings are arrays: 
    python does not have a character datatype a single char is simply string with leng 1.
    square brackets can be used to access elements of string
            a  = "Hello world"
            print(a[1])
Looping through a string:
    since strings are arrays we can loop through the characters in a string with a for loop.
            for x in "banana":
                print(x)
String length: 
    use len()
        print(len(a))

Check string: to check certain char/substring in string we use in keyword.
    print("is" in a)

    if "is" in a:
        print("yes its there")

Check if not: to check certain char/substring is not in string we use not in keywords.
    print("is" not in a)

    if "is" not in a:
        print("yes its not there")




