MYSQL: 
    SQL is the standared language for dealing with relational databases
    SQL is used to insert, search, update and delete db records
    SQL is not case sensitive

Semi colon after SQL statement:
    mysql db requires semicolon at the end of each SQL statement.


SELECT: it is used to select data from a database. the data returned is stored in a result table called the result-set.
        SELECT col1, col2.....
        from table_name;

SELECT DISTINCT: used to return only distinct(different) values.
        select distinct col1, col2,...
        from table_name;

        select count(distinct col1) from table;

Where clause: it is used to filter records. to extract only those records that fulfill a specified condition.
                it is used in SELECT, UPDATE and DELETE statements.

        select col1, col2,...
        from table_name 
        where condition;

Text field vs numeric fields: 
        SQL requires single qoute around text values(most db sys will also allow double qoutes)
            select * from customers where customerID =1;

Operators in the where clause: 
    = equal
    > grater than 
    < less than 
    >= greater than or equal 
    <= less than or equal 
    <> not equal 
    BETWEEN : between a certain range
    LIKE : search for pattern 
    IN : To specify multiply possible values for a column


The MYSQL AND, OR, NOT Operators:
    the where clause can be combined with AND, OR, NOT operators 

    AND, OR, operators are used to filter the records based on more than one condition: 
        AND : displays a record if all the conditions seperated by AND are TRUE
                    SELECT col1, col2,.. from table where condition1 and condition2 and condition3..;

        OR  : displays a record if any of the condition seperated by OR is true 
                    SELECT col1, col2, .. from table where condition1 or condition2 or condition3;

    the NOT operator displays a record if the condition is not true
                    select col1, col2,.. from table where not condition;

ORDER BY: 
    it is used to sort the result-set in ascending or descending order.
    it sorts the records in ascending order by default. to sort the records in descending order, use the DESC keyword.

            SELECT col1, col2,.. from table_name ORDER BY col1, col2,.. ASC|DESC;

INSERT INTO: it is used to insert new records in a table.
    1. specify both the column names and the values to be instead:
            INSERT INTO table (col1, col2, col3,..)
            VALUES (val1, val2, val3,..);
    2. without column names inserting values based on positions 
            INSERT INTO table VALUES(val1, val2, val3);

    3. Inserting data only in specified columns : to insert only on specified column we need mention required col names


NULL VALUE: a field with a null val is a field with no value.
    if a field in a table is optional it is possible to insert a new record or update a record without adding a value to this field.
    then the field will be saved with a NULL value.

HOW to test NULL values?
    it is not possible to test for NULL values with comparision operator such as =, <, or <>.
    we have to use the IS NULL and IS NOT NULL operators instead.

    IS NULL SYNTAX:
        select col_names 
        from table 
        where col_name IS NULL;
    
    IS NOT NULL SYNTAX:
        select col_name
        from table
        where col_name IS NOT NULL;

UPDATE:
    it is used to modify the existing records in a table
        update table_name set col_name=val where condition;


    NOTE: be careful while updating records in a table! notice the where clause in the update statement.
            the where clause specifies which records that should be updated. if you omit the where clause all records in table will be updated.

UPDATE MULTIPLE RECORDS:
        it is the where clause that determined how many records will be updated.

